XXX = Fixed
YYY = On the todo-list to be fixed
ZZZ = Discussion point if it needs to be fixed
--- = Not going to fix

===

- no evaluation is given in the paper, e.g., feedback and   comments from the domain experts
- Section 5, which presents the methodology, is not easy to follow, see below for detail.
- The visualization method is not very novel, e.g., the 3D visualization that presents the solar neighborhood appears to be primitive.

Suggestions:

XXX
Sec 1: better to define what is an ensemble member earlier in the paper.

XXX
Sec 2: it mentioned the use of Graph visualization for inspecting
time-dependent measurements from the available satellite, but I guess it
simply means graph plotting (in the timeline view) rather than graph
visualization, right?  Try Google image search with "graph visualization"

YYY -> Write explanation in response letter
Sec 5.1: it says "The main view shows the longitude and latitude on the
horizontal and vertical axes, providing the direction of the cone when
looking at the Sun" but if we look at the main views (top left) in Fig 8
and 9, the glyphs seem to be aligning along five columns.  If the spatial
domain in the main view represents longitude and latitude, why the glyphs
arrange like this?

XXX
Sec 5.1: it talks about the main view: "The longitude and latitude are
normalized to the available parameter set to fill the available screen
space."  Is the normalization uniform for longitude and latitude?  Should
show some labels in the ensemble view to present the scale.

XXX
Sec 5.1 paragraph 2: it should be more specific to talk about how the
parameters (arrival time, speed and Kp indices) are mapped to individual
colors.  Now, it is hard to understand the visual contents in the view. 
For example, Sec 5.1 later says "For the arrival time and the arrival
speed, the entire glyph is of the same color."  Need details to
understand this.

XXX -> Correction into response letter
In the ensemble view, why the median ensemble is not an existing ensemble
member but a virtual member?  Statistically, median is the middle member
in the sorted data.

YYY
Sec 5.2: the timeline view is hard to follow. What is the meaning of each
colored line in the view?  From the video, I can guess a bit, but from
the paper, it doesn't present the detail.  In addition, what are the
units and range for the horizontal and vertical axes in the view?  The
meaning of how to convert per-pixel velocity to speed in this plot is
unclear until reading up to much later part in the paper.

YYY  -> Write into response letter
Sec 5.2.3: it seems that the timeline view just plots 2D image-based
speed of the CME, but such a speed is 2D, so it depends on the relative
orientation of the image plane of a satellite measurement.  Why not
rectify the velocity to 3D by triangulation (with H1 and H2), so that we
can compute 3D velocity instead?

XXX
Sec 5.3.1: what does it mean by out-of-date?  I guess it refers to the
image that is closest in time to the selected time step, or the image
that is used to generate the timeline view, right?

XXX
Sec 5.3.2: what is N in the variables paragraph?  If N dot r^2 means the
number of particles, what is N?

YYY -> XXX
Sec 5.3.2: What is a particle?

YYY -> XXX
Sec 5.3.2: What does dp mean? What is p?

XXX
Sec. 6 first sentence: why "or" a simulation run? Sounds very strange.
Did you try both of them?

YYY -> XXX
Video: In the 3D visualization, it would be good to show a sparse and
faint polar-coordinate-style wireframe grid to help indicate the orbital
plane of the Earth around the Sun.  This plane could provide a visual
reference to perceive the spatial context of the objects in the 3D
visualization.

YYY -> XXX
Video: Use texture filtering when rendering the satellite images to avoid
the undesired aliasing effect when moving the virtual camera in 3D.

Minor:

YYY -> XXX
Fig.2 top-left: I suppose the in-situ measurements are done on Earth or
with the Earth-orbiting satellites, right?  But the little image shown
here doesn't seem to be a clear representative image.

XXX -> Added timestamps, replaced 5.a
Fig.4d shows the time at which the SOHO image was taken. How about
Fig.4a-c?  It would be interesting to show the time for them also.  In
addition, it would be interesting to show the amount of angular (or time)
separation between the two STEREO satellites from Earth as in Fig.5a.

XXX
Some typos, e.g.,
Sec 4:
  use -> used
  provide -> provided
  `` instead of '' before optical flow maps
  missing a period at the end of sec 4
Sec 5.1:
  between -> among

XXX
"References" sec.:
some references miss year
some references miss IEEE before transactions

===

YYY -> Response
From a visual fidelity perspective, I found myself wondering how the
authors' volume rendering results would compare to output from other
CME-MHD codes (H3D, etc.)
-> Reply:
Here are other MHD heliopsheric models that include CMEs, for example SWMF/Solar or CORHEL. THere are a few similar models developed in Europe.
These models include solar corona and have inner boundary near the solar surface, while Enlil inner boundary is at 21.5 Solar radii.
These models are much much slower than Enlil and are not implemented in real time or in CCMC Runs-on-Request system.
Modelers sometime show results. One of such simulations (SWMF/Solar was implemented in Journey to the Star movie (without volumetric visualization.
There are on-going efforts to develop a fast and robust SWMF/Solar that we will be able to run in near real-time. There is a chance that there will be some progress by the time you will come in fall.


YYY -> XXX
One thing that was a bit unclear throughout the paper was the issue of
data size. How large are the datasets? Are there limits to the authors
approach/system that would limit the applicability of their system to
simulations of higher fidelity?

XXX
The basic concept the authors are talking
about is comparing simulation data with observations. Yes, the
observations are "ground truth", but the point is this concept should
make an appearance in the Introduction, for it is one of the main
contributions of the paper. 

ZZZ -> Rebuttal in response letter
While I appreciate the science-focused content in their Introduction,
I believe the authors may be able to expand their Introduction section
by a paragraph to give an overview of what is coming in the paper:
what problem are they solving?

ZZZ -> Add ensemble into abstract
    -> Significance for the visualization
I would also suggest rewriting the abstract to focus on the problem
being solved: comparison of simulation and observational data with the
aim of finding/discovering the best match of simulation parameters
that fit observed phenomena. The significance of the results is the
potential for greatly improved accuracy of space weather forecasting,
which in turn can have a direct impact on society in terms of dollars
and lives.

-> Explain in response letter
Are there other observational sources the authors might use to improve
accuracy?

ZZZ -> Write in response letter
I didn't get a good feel for the amount of error/uncertainty
introduced by the optical flow algorithm, esp wrt the impact on
accuracy of the space weather forecast. 

YYY
The authors "evaluated" their system against known CME events that
occurred in the past. This approach seems reasonably sound. I did not
have a good feel for "how good" the results were; the authors
presented information comparing predicted and actual CME arrival time,
and statistics about the K_p forecast probability
distributions. However, I can't tell if these results are "good" or
"bad." A few more sentences here to clarify would be helpful.

===

ZZZ -> Write letter; background is shortened and it is good now
-> Exchange Fig 3 and 2
I’d promote related work to section 2, right after introduction. There
is a lot of background material on coronal mass ejections, sensors, and
current tools which probably should be sub-sections of the of the
background. Once this is discussed, the new tool and workflow can be
introduced. This will keep it less confusing. I had to read the paper
twice to get the full picture. Fig 3 should definitely appear earlier.
The audience here will probably not be familiar with the scientific
background so anything that facilitates understanding is helpful.

ZZZ -> Add overview figure into workflow and add arrows on top of them
 -> Rest: address in the letter
There is a discussion of ensemble tools but not much discussion behind
the motivation for selecting the uncertainty visualization techniques in
use in the tool. Also, I’m having trouble understanding how all the
features in the tool come together. A screenshot of the entire tool will
probably be very helpful. Should start with eth overview and then go into
individual parts of the tool.

YYY
The case study also needs to be better motivated and the learnings from
the tool emphasized. Did the experts want to do something that the tool
did not allow them to do?

YYY -> XXX
The figures need work. Legends of color scales, flow speed, etc are
missing. In 3D rendering, the position of the camera relative to the
objects is important.

ZZZ -> Add comment to video and rebuttal letter
I’m somewhat concerned that the sizes of the
celestial bodies are exaggerated. Is this true? The video says that the
planets are not to scale. How does this affect analysis? Also the figure
captions are like an overview. What am I seeing? 

ZZZ -> Add in rebuttal letter (not time-critical)
Implementation details of the system should be included. How is the data
and how was the performance of the tool?

---
Ensemble uncertainty is not clearly communicated in the exposition

===

ZZZ -> Add into cover letter
Moreover, the authors deliberately made some settings to make the
visualization even more trivial, but with no rationality. For example,
only three angle scenarios (90, 135, 180) are chosen for visualization of
geoeffectivty, and only 3 variables are chosen from ENLIL simulation to
volume rendering.

There are also some other minor problems:
XXX
1. Color scales and numerical scales are lost int many figures.

XXX
2. What is Graph visualization in Section 2?

YYY
3. What's the meaning of (a)-(d) in Figure 10?

ZZZ -> Cover
In the timeline view and spatial view, it just allow the users to compare a single ensemble member each time.
